I'm the strategic sustainability lead
for gossipy festivals I work on green
initiatives and projects
I'm the green communications officer at
Glastonbury Festival what I do here I
look after all the dirty things outside
I have grown up here and where we farm
I now co-organized festival with my dad
Michael who started it in 1970s my
parents run one of the greenfield areas
so I was a part of the festival since
there I grew up running around and
playing at the festival as I got older
start to hassle people for work the
opportunity to work on sustainability
its Vassily Percy if it's what it was
like in the eighties the festival when I
was growing up it was quite small pretty
much just occupy these two fields and
now
[Music]
Glastonbury Festival evolved organically
on the farm for the festival to be
sustainable it has to work together the
farm comes first and then the festival
comes after that
so the farm always has to be looked
after and always has been right from the
start we try to keep it as real as
possible and it was green as possible
this year we're banning the sale of
single-use plastic bottles
we're selling watering cans instead
we're also having 60 refill points so
we've got a combination of kiosks where
you can go and hand over your reusable
bottle and they'll fill up or you can do
like a self-service we're building a
city essentially but we're working with
a farm in a valley and so we need to
bring the city in and let it go without
impacting too much on what is a very
kind of rural part of the world the way
we deal it has changed because of course
the festival's grown massively from what
it started as it use tiny thousands of
people now we have over 200,000 people
on-site and I suppose the waste they
produce the amount of it in the kind of
ways has shifted through time you get
200,000 people onto a site and they're
going to bring a lot of stuff with them
and we need to ensure that everything
that they do bring with them goes and is
responsibly dealt with Glastonbury
Festival set up the worthy warriors
scheme a couple of years ago and it's a
way of getting members of the public who
bought tickets to come to the event to
help us to communicate where to take
things what to bring with them and what
to take away again
[Applause]
millions of liters of sewage have to be
processed from this event but we screen
it all before it goes off site so we put
it through a machine where sanitary
items and any waste that's been thrown
into it gets separated out you wouldn't
see it you wouldn't know about it but
it's saying that we do is a kind of an
extra thing we have daily litter picks
where the rubbish is picked up and put
into separate bags hands and bottles
into a green bag the biodegradable food
disposables into another bag and then
non recyclable waste into another one we
have oil drum bins we have 12,000 of
them the public and separated into three
different bins
and then we also have waste recycling
centers and the waste is separated there
we have a very large barn up on site
which is the recycling center I think
it's the largest temporary recycling
center in the country when it's on we're
always thinking of green initiatives so
for several years now all serveware
and packaging from food outlets has been
possible and gets mixed up with an
edible food waste so that all goes off
to a facility just north of Bristol any
edible food waste we use it on-site
where we can and if we can't you know
then it goes to local charities and
local sort of organizations twenty
nineteen is year one we've got five
years to the next fellow year the main
point for our fellow year is to rest the
land and to give the wildlife around it
a break so the grass can come back the
animals don't get disrupted and they
have a chance to bed in and do the
things animals do the wildlife here is
obviously very important as you look
around you can see all the massive old
trees and wildlife so we have a lot day
we even have hairs we've spotted some
hairs this week running around these
wide hedgerows and banks of trees are
all fenced off with Harris fencing to
protect the wildlife burden and also to
protect the stream from you know people
urinating industry because we've had
problems with that in the past we're
putting in some quite major kind of
infrastructure upgrades around the site
one of which is a anaerobic digester
plant which is linked to the farms or
the cattle slurry we'll go into that
it'll get turned into biogas and that'll
generate electricity which we can run
the farm and the long-term ambition is
to utilize some of that power down to
things like the pyramid production area
there's tiny bits of like micro rubbish
that's all around the place and Rob and
his team will go back after a couple of
months and then they will turn up all
the ground turn it back up and anything
that's been trodden in deep down in
within the mud gets all brought back up
again what we tend to do is this really
muddy is sort of power Harrow the mud
Dane take all the rubbish out of it and
just grass seed it down we want to
incentivize people to leave less waste
to pack consciously we're getting better
at it but it's a long it's you know it's
a long-term mission packing we'd love
you to come as light as possible we'd
love you to bear in mind this is a farm
we'd love you to think about what you
bring and and try and move away from
disposable convenient lifestyle I'll
tell you as a pain you can go to any
supermarket and you can buy these
camping chairs and everybody you know
everybody sees them on the way in they
think I'll just buy a couple of them two
for a fiver and they put them down and
then sometimes not everybody but quite a
lot of people leave them behind you know
you just have to put consider these
things because we've got so many items
we're left with
and we're really asking people just from
the very first stage to be you know to
be aware and conscious of what they're
packing come with good old-fashioned
soap and flannel leave your wipes behind
bring a good sturdy tent and take it
home with you you don't really need to
bring very much a class professor or
just you know bring a good open mind
[Music]
you